# Validation of CRAN R package "QRISK3"

**Introduction**

This respiratory provides the validation programs including QRISK3 SAS macro and original C function
for CRAN package "QRISK3" for transparency and replication.
This was not placed in the same github respiratory as R package, as CRAN does not suggest to
pack less-relevant files into R package. 
Note the programs in this respiratory only aim to validate CRAN pacakge R "QRISK3"

License: GPL-3

The copyright of QRISK3 calculator belongs to ClinRisk Ltd.

    Copyright 2017 ClinRisk Ltd.

**Copyright and License**

    The original QRISK3 model formula <https://qrisk.org/three/src.php> 
    including original variable names and model beta coefficients
    is under the license of LGPL and copyright to ClinRisk Ltd. 

    Details:
    ========

    Copyright 2017 ClinRisk Ltd.

    QRISK3-2017 is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.
      
    QRISK3-2017 is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.
      
    You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License
    along with QRISK3-2017.  If not, see http://www.gnu.org/licenses/.
      
    Additional terms
      
    The following disclaimer must be held together with any risk score score generated by this code.  
    If the score is displayed, then this disclaimer must be displayed or otherwise be made easily accessible, e.g. by a prominent link alongside it.
    The initial version of this file, to be found at http://svn.clinrisk.co.uk/opensource/qrisk2, faithfully implements QRISK3-2017.
    ClinRisk Ltd. have released this code under the GNU Lesser General Public License to enable others to implement the algorithm faithfully.
    However, the nature of the GNU Lesser General Public License is such that we cannot prevent, for example, someone accidentally 
    altering the coefficients, getting the inputs wrong, or just poor programming.
    ClinRisk Ltd. stress, therefore, that it is the responsibility of the end user to check that the source that they receive produces the same 
    results as the original code found at https://qrisk.org.
    Inaccurate implementations of risk scores can lead to wrong patients being given the wrong treatment.
      
    End of additional terms

**Install R package "QRISK3" from**

   **CRAN**
   
    install.packages("QRISK3")

  **github**

    install.packages("devtools")

    library(devtools)

    install_github("YanLiUK/QRISK3")
  
**Validation instructions**

   **Raw test data**

    QRISK3_valid\RawData\QRISK3_2017_test.csv

    QRISK3_valid\RawData\QRISK3_2019_test.csv

   **SAS**

    Using SAS to run the SAS file "QRISK3_valid\SAS\QRISK3_valid.sas"

    It would return the validated results for both of test data sets (QRISK3_2017_test and QRISK3_2019_test)

   **C**

    Please install gcc (C compiler) first

    Instructions are in QRISK3_valid\C\QRISK3_C.sh (open it with an editor such as notepad otherwise it will run)
